src/content/docs/configuration/file-format.mdx, before:

---
title: Mergify Configuration File
description: Everything you need to know about Mergify configuration file
---

import DownloadLink from '../../../components/DownloadLink.astro';
import { Image } from "astro:assets"
import configCheckScreenshot from "../../images/configuration/config-check.png"
import OptionsTable from '../../../components/Tables/OptionsTable';

The Mergify configuration file is an essential component of using our platform
effectively. This document will provide a comprehensive overview of the file,
including its name, format, and the data structure schema.

## Configuration File Name

Mergify applies the following rule to find and use its configuration:

- It reads the file named `.mergify.yml`, or, as a fallback,
  `.mergify/config.yml` or `.github/mergify.yml` from the repository root
  directory.

- It reads the file from the default repository branch configured on GitHub —
  usually `main`.

- It can extends the configuration by another configuration using the keyword
  `extends` — see ["extending the configuration
  file"](#extending-configuration-files).

## File Format

The configuration file uses the [YAML](https://yaml.org/) format, which is both
human-readable and machine-parsable. YAML is easy to read and edit, making it a
popular choice for configuration files.

The file main type is a dictionary and each key of the dictionary configures a
different aspect of Mergify:

{/* FIXME: add link to a better page than writing your first rule? */}

- [`pull_request_rules`](#pull-request-rules) configures [Automation
  Workflow](/workflow/);

- [`merge_protections`](#merge-protections) configures [Merge
  Protections](/merge-protections/);

- [`queue_rules`](#queue-rules) configures the [Merge
  Queue](/merge-queue);

- [`merge_queue`](#merge-queue) configures option common to all the queues
  of the [Merge Queue])(/merge-queue);

- [`priority_rules`](#priority-rules) configures the [priorities for the Merge
  Queue](/merge-queue/priority);

- [`commands_restrictions`](/commands/restrictions) configures who is able to
  run commands;

- [`defaults`](#defaults) allows to configure default options for various
  actions;

- [`shared`](#shared) allows to [define any YAML payload that can be used using
  YAML anchors](/configuration/sharing#sharing-configuration-sections);

- [`extends`](#extends) allows to [extend the
  configuration](/configuration/sharing#extending-configuration-files) 
  file by importing another configuration file.

### Pull Request Rules

The top-level key `pull_request_rules` allows to automate your workflow by
writing rules that execute actions. It must be a list of dictionary with the
following keys:

<OptionsTable def="PullRequestRuleModel" />

Example:

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: add label when author is jd
    description: jd needs his own label because reasons
    conditions:
      - author = jd
    actions:
      label:
        add:
          - jd
```

### Merge Protections

The top-level key `merge_protections` allows to protect your merge by adding a
list of rules that must match before allowing the pull request to be merged.

<OptionsTable def="MergeProtectionRuleModel" />

### Queue Rules

The top-level key `queue_rules` allows to define the rules that reign over your
[merge queues](/merge-queue).

<OptionsTable def="QueueRuleModel" />

### Priority Rules

The top-level key `priority rules` allows to define the rules that will determine
which [priority](/merge-queue/priority) a pull request has when entering your merge queue.

<OptionsTable def="PriorityRuleModel" />

### Defaults

The `defaults` section provides a means to set configuration values that act as
fallbacks for:
- Actions executed by both [pull request rules](/workflow/) and [commands](/commands)
- Configuration options for [queue rules](/merge-queue/)

Instead of defining the same options repeatedly for different rules, you can specify
them once in the defaults section. If a particular option is directly defined under
`pull_request_rules` or `queue_rules`, it will take precedence; otherwise, the system
resorts to the values defined in the `defaults` section.

```yaml
defaults:
  actions:
    comment:
      bot_account: Autobot

  queue_rule:
    batch_size: 10

pull_request_rules:
  - name: comment with default
    conditions:
      - label = comment
    actions:
      comment:
        message: I 💙 Mergify

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    allow_inplace_checks: False

  - name: default with smaller batch
    allow_inplace_checks: False
    batch_size: 2
```

This configuration is equivalent to:

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: comment with default
    conditions:
      - label = comment
    actions:
      comment:
        message: I 💙 Mergify
        bot_account: Autobot

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    allow_inplace_checks: False
    batch_size: 10

  - name: default with smaller batch
    allow_inplace_checks: False
    batch_size: 2
```

In the example, the `bot_account` value is taken from the `defaults` section,
simplifying the `pull_request_rules` and ensuring consistent behavior across
different rules.
The same behavior applies for the `batch_size` option of the `queue_rules`, the
default value of `10` gets applied to the queue rule `default` but not for the
queue rule `default with smaller batch`, because it already has `batch_size: 2`.

### Shared

You can store anything in the `shared` key. Its main purpose is to provide a
place to put redundant YAML anchors. See
[Sharing](/configuration/sharing#sharing-configuration-sections).

### Extends

Mergify offers a feature to extend your configuration file by incorporating
settings from another repository, aiding in consistency and reducing
duplication. This is achieved by using the `extends` keyword at the top of your
configuration file and specifying the source repository. See [Extending
Configuration Files](/configuration/sharing#extending-configuration-files).

## JSON Schema Specification

For those interested in a more detailed and machine-readable description of the
Mergify configuration file format, a [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/)
specification is available. This specification can help you understand the
structure of the configuration file and can be used to generate client
libraries, server stubs, or API documentation.

You can find <DownloadLink href="/mergify-configuration-schema.json">the JSON
Schema specification for the Mergify configuration here</DownloadLink>.

## Validation and Troubleshooting

When working with Mergify's configuration file, it's essential to validate and
troubleshoot any issues that may arise. Ensuring that your configuration file
is error-free and well-structured can help prevent unexpected behavior and
maintain a smooth workflow.

### Validation

To validate your Mergify configuration file, you can use Mergify's built-in
validation tool. Whenever you push a change to the configuration file, Mergify
will automatically validate the configuration and report any errors or warnings
in the "Checks" tab of your pull request.

<Image src={configCheckScreenshot} alt="Mergify configuration check" />

If there are any issues with your configuration file, you will receive a
detailed description of the problem and guidance on how to fix it. Be sure to
address any errors or warnings to ensure optimal performance and avoid
potential issues.

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues or unexpected behavior with your Mergify configuration
file, consider the following troubleshooting steps:

1. Double-check the file name and location: ensure that your configuration file
   is correctly named (e.g., `.mergify.yml`) and is located in the right place.
   See [Configuration File Name](#configuration-file-name) for details.

2. Verify the YAML syntax: confirm that your configuration file follows the
   proper YAML syntax, including correct indentation, spacing, and structure.

3. Review your rules and conditions: Make sure that your rules and conditions
   are correctly defined and accurately reflect your intended workflow.

4. Check for conflicting rules: examine your rules for any conflicts or
   overlapping conditions that could cause unintended behavior.

5. Consult Mergify's documentation: refer to Mergify's documentation for
   guidance on creating and managing your configuration file, as well as
   understanding the various features and options available to you.

By following these troubleshooting steps, you can effectively identify and
resolve any issues with your Mergify configuration file, ensuring a smooth and
efficient automation process for your repository.

Commit message:

docs: add deprecation workarounds documentation for `allow_inplace_checks`
As we're going to deprecate `allow_inplace_checks`, we need to create
a documentation so the users can implement a workaround.
The link to this documentation will be inserted in the deprecation notice afterward.

src/content/docs/configuration/file-format.mdx, after:

---
title: Mergify Configuration File
description: Everything you need to know about Mergify configuration file
---

import DownloadLink from '../../../components/DownloadLink.astro';
import { Image } from "astro:assets"
import configCheckScreenshot from "../../images/configuration/config-check.png"
import OptionsTable from '../../../components/Tables/OptionsTable';

The Mergify configuration file is an essential component of using our platform
effectively. This document will provide a comprehensive overview of the file,
including its name, format, and the data structure schema.

## Configuration File Name

Mergify applies the following rule to find and use its configuration:

- It reads the file named `.mergify.yml`, or, as a fallback,
  `.mergify/config.yml` or `.github/mergify.yml` from the repository root
  directory.

- It reads the file from the default repository branch configured on GitHub —
  usually `main`.

- It can extends the configuration by another configuration using the keyword
  `extends` — see ["extending the configuration
  file"](#extending-configuration-files).

## File Format

The configuration file uses the [YAML](https://yaml.org/) format, which is both
human-readable and machine-parsable. YAML is easy to read and edit, making it a
popular choice for configuration files.

The file main type is a dictionary and each key of the dictionary configures a
different aspect of Mergify:

{/* FIXME: add link to a better page than writing your first rule? */}

- [`pull_request_rules`](#pull-request-rules) configures [Automation
  Workflow](/workflow/);

- [`merge_protections`](#merge-protections) configures [Merge
  Protections](/merge-protections/);

- [`queue_rules`](#queue-rules) configures the [Merge
  Queue](/merge-queue);

- [`merge_queue`](#merge-queue) configures option common to all the queues
  of the [Merge Queue])(/merge-queue);

- [`priority_rules`](#priority-rules) configures the [priorities for the Merge
  Queue](/merge-queue/priority);

- [`commands_restrictions`](/commands/restrictions) configures who is able to
  run commands;

- [`defaults`](#defaults) allows to configure default options for various
  actions;

- [`shared`](#shared) allows to [define any YAML payload that can be used using
  YAML anchors](/configuration/sharing#sharing-configuration-sections);

- [`extends`](#extends) allows to [extend the
  configuration](/configuration/sharing#extending-configuration-files) 
  file by importing another configuration file.

### Pull Request Rules

The top-level key `pull_request_rules` allows to automate your workflow by
writing rules that execute actions. It must be a list of dictionary with the
following keys:

<OptionsTable def="PullRequestRuleModel" />

Example:

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: add label when author is jd
    description: jd needs his own label because reasons
    conditions:
      - author = jd
    actions:
      label:
        add:
          - jd
```

### Merge Protections

The top-level key `merge_protections` allows to protect your merge by adding a
list of rules that must match before allowing the pull request to be merged.

<OptionsTable def="MergeProtectionRuleModel" />

### Queue Rules

The top-level key `queue_rules` allows to define the rules that reign over your
[merge queues](/merge-queue).

<OptionsTable def="QueueRuleModel" />

### Working around the `allow_inplace_checks` attribute deprecation

As the `allow_inplace_checks` attribute is deprecated, different choices are available.

1. If you want to merge your pull requests without the generation of draft PRs, you can leverage
   the [Workflow Automation](/workflow/) feature with the [rebase](/workflow/actions/rebase/)
   and [merge](/workflow/actions/merge/) actions. This way, once a pull request validates your rules,
   you can directly rebase and merge it.

2. If draft PRs are not an issue for you, but you want to preserve you commit history by avoiding merge commit shas,
   you can setup your merge queue to use the `fast-forward` mode for the attribute `merge_method`.
   This way, the merge queue will keep the linearity of your commit history.
   See the `queue_rules` [documentation](/configuration/file-format/#queue-rules) for more details.

3. If draft PRs are not an issue for you, but you want to limit their amount, you can choose to leverage
   the `batch_size` and `speculative_checks` attributes in your `queue_rules`.
   See the `queue_rules` [documentation](/configuration/file-format/#queue-rules) for more details.

For any further questions, feel free to <a href="mailto:support@mergify.com">Contact our support</a>.

### Priority Rules

The top-level key `priority rules` allows to define the rules that will determine
which [priority](/merge-queue/priority) a pull request has when entering your merge queue.

<OptionsTable def="PriorityRuleModel" />

### Defaults

The `defaults` section provides a means to set configuration values that act as
fallbacks for:
- Actions executed by both [pull request rules](/workflow/) and [commands](/commands)
- Configuration options for [queue rules](/merge-queue/)

Instead of defining the same options repeatedly for different rules, you can specify
them once in the defaults section. If a particular option is directly defined under
`pull_request_rules` or `queue_rules`, it will take precedence; otherwise, the system
resorts to the values defined in the `defaults` section.

```yaml
defaults:
  actions:
    comment:
      bot_account: Autobot

  queue_rule:
    batch_size: 10

pull_request_rules:
  - name: comment with default
    conditions:
      - label = comment
    actions:
      comment:
        message: I 💙 Mergify

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    allow_inplace_checks: False

  - name: default with smaller batch
    allow_inplace_checks: False
    batch_size: 2
```

This configuration is equivalent to:

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: comment with default
    conditions:
      - label = comment
    actions:
      comment:
        message: I 💙 Mergify
        bot_account: Autobot

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    allow_inplace_checks: False
    batch_size: 10

  - name: default with smaller batch
    allow_inplace_checks: False
    batch_size: 2
```

In the example, the `bot_account` value is taken from the `defaults` section,
simplifying the `pull_request_rules` and ensuring consistent behavior across
different rules.
The same behavior applies for the `batch_size` option of the `queue_rules`, the
default value of `10` gets applied to the queue rule `default` but not for the
queue rule `default with smaller batch`, because it already has `batch_size: 2`.

### Shared

You can store anything in the `shared` key. Its main purpose is to provide a
place to put redundant YAML anchors. See
[Sharing](/configuration/sharing#sharing-configuration-sections).

### Extends

Mergify offers a feature to extend your configuration file by incorporating
settings from another repository, aiding in consistency and reducing
duplication. This is achieved by using the `extends` keyword at the top of your
configuration file and specifying the source repository. See [Extending
Configuration Files](/configuration/sharing#extending-configuration-files).

## JSON Schema Specification

For those interested in a more detailed and machine-readable description of the
Mergify configuration file format, a [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/)
specification is available. This specification can help you understand the
structure of the configuration file and can be used to generate client
libraries, server stubs, or API documentation.

You can find <DownloadLink href="/mergify-configuration-schema.json">the JSON
Schema specification for the Mergify configuration here</DownloadLink>.

## Validation and Troubleshooting

When working with Mergify's configuration file, it's essential to validate and
troubleshoot any issues that may arise. Ensuring that your configuration file
is error-free and well-structured can help prevent unexpected behavior and
maintain a smooth workflow.

### Validation

To validate your Mergify configuration file, you can use Mergify's built-in
validation tool. Whenever you push a change to the configuration file, Mergify
will automatically validate the configuration and report any errors or warnings
in the "Checks" tab of your pull request.

<Image src={configCheckScreenshot} alt="Mergify configuration check" />

If there are any issues with your configuration file, you will receive a
detailed description of the problem and guidance on how to fix it. Be sure to
address any errors or warnings to ensure optimal performance and avoid
potential issues.

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues or unexpected behavior with your Mergify configuration
file, consider the following troubleshooting steps:

1. Double-check the file name and location: ensure that your configuration file
   is correctly named (e.g., `.mergify.yml`) and is located in the right place.
   See [Configuration File Name](#configuration-file-name) for details.

2. Verify the YAML syntax: confirm that your configuration file follows the
   proper YAML syntax, including correct indentation, spacing, and structure.

3. Review your rules and conditions: Make sure that your rules and conditions
   are correctly defined and accurately reflect your intended workflow.

4. Check for conflicting rules: examine your rules for any conflicts or
   overlapping conditions that could cause unintended behavior.

5. Consult Mergify's documentation: refer to Mergify's documentation for
   guidance on creating and managing your configuration file, as well as
   understanding the various features and options available to you.

By following these troubleshooting steps, you can effectively identify and
resolve any issues with your Mergify configuration file, ensuring a smooth and
efficient automation process for your repository.
