src/content/workflow/actions/github_actions.mdx, before:

---
title: GitHub Action
description: Dispatch an existing GitHub workflow in the repository.
---

import ActionOptionsTable from '../../../components/ActionOptionsTable';
import OptionsTable from '../../../components/OptionsTable';
import { Info } from '../../../components/Alerts/Info';

The `github_actions` action enables Mergify to seamlessly dispatch existing
GitHub workflows within a repository when specified conditions are satisfied.
By integrating this action, users can optimize their CI/CD pipeline, invoking
specific GitHub Actions based on Mergify's conditions.

<Info>
  To use the `github_actions` action, ensure your workflow includes the
  `workflow_dispatch` trigger. Additionally, Mergify requires write permissions
  on Actions. Navigate to Mergify's UI to accept the permissions necessary for
  this action.
</Info>

## Parameters

<ActionOptionsTable action="github_actions" />

### Workflow Action

<OptionsTable name="GitHubActionsWorkflow" />

### Workflow Action Dispatch

<OptionsTable name="GitHubActionsWorkflowDispatch" />

## Examples

### Dispatching GitHub Workflows with Inputs

To dispatch two workflows named `hello_world_workflow.yaml` and
`foo_workflow.yaml` when a pull request is labeled with "dispatch", use the
following rule. Here, the `hello_world_workflow.yaml` workflow accepts two
inputs, which are defined as `name` and `age`.

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: Dispatch GitHub Actions
    conditions:
      - label=dispatch
    actions:
      github_actions:
        workflow:
          dispatch:
            - workflow: hello_world_workflow.yaml
              inputs:
                name: steve
                age: 42
            - workflow: foo_workflow.yaml
```

Commit message:

refactor(github_actions): allow template for inputs

src/content/workflow/actions/github_actions.mdx, after:

---
title: GitHub Action
description: Dispatch an existing GitHub workflow in the repository.
---

import ActionOptionsTable from '../../../components/ActionOptionsTable';
import OptionsTable from '../../../components/OptionsTable';
import { Info } from '../../../components/Alerts/Info';

The `github_actions` action enables Mergify to seamlessly dispatch existing
GitHub workflows within a repository when specified conditions are satisfied.
By integrating this action, users can optimize their CI/CD pipeline, invoking
specific GitHub Actions based on Mergify's conditions.

<Info>
  To use the `github_actions` action, ensure your workflow includes the
  `workflow_dispatch` trigger. Additionally, Mergify requires write permissions
  on Actions. Navigate to Mergify's UI to accept the permissions necessary for
  this action.
</Info>

## Parameters

<ActionOptionsTable action="github_actions" />

### Workflow Action

<OptionsTable name="GitHubActionsWorkflow" />

### Workflow Action Dispatch

<OptionsTable name="GitHubActionsWorkflowDispatch" />

## Examples

### Dispatching GitHub Workflows with Inputs

To dispatch three workflows named `foo_workflow.yaml`, `hello_world_workflow.yaml` and
`dynamic_workflow.yaml` when a pull request is labeled with "dispatch", use the
following rule.

Here, the `hello_world_workflow.yaml` workflow accepts two
inputs, which are defined as `name` and `age`. The `dynamic_workflow.yaml`
takes the [`template`](template) input `author`.

```yaml
pull_request_rules:
  - name: Dispatch GitHub Actions
    conditions:
      - label=dispatch
    actions:
      github_actions:
        workflow:
          dispatch:
            - workflow: foo_workflow.yaml
            - workflow: hello_world_workflow.yaml
              inputs:
                name: steve
                age: 42
            - workflow: dynamic_workflow.yaml
              inputs:
                author: "{{ author }}"
```
