src/content/docs/ci-insights/cypress.mdx, before:

---
title: Cypress Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from Cypress to CI Insights
---

import cypressLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/cypress/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={cypressLogo} alt="Cypress logo"/>

This guide shows how to configure [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) to produce
JUnit reports and upload them to CI Insights within a GitHub Actions workflow.

## 1. Generate a JUnit Report with Cypress

By default, Cypress doesn't generate JUnit-format test results. You need to
enable it in your `cypress.config.ts` file.

This is [documenteded on Cypress
website](https://docs.cypress.io/app/tooling/reporters).

The best way to do this is to leverage `cypress-multi-reporters` so you can
both have JUnit generated while keeping the standard output.

1. Add `cypress-multi-reporters` to your package file, e.g.,
   `npm install --save-dev cypress-multi-reporters mocha-junit-reporter`.

2. Create a `reporter-config.json` at the top of your repository with this
   configuration:
   ```yaml
   {
     "reporterEnabled": "spec, mocha-junit-reporter",
     "mochaJunitReporterReporterOptions": {
       "mochaFile": "cypress/results/junit-[hash].xml"
     }
   }
   ```

## 2. Update Your GitHub Actions Workflow

Once you have the JUnit file produced by Cypress, add a step to upload these
results to **CI Insights** via the `mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci` action.

In the workflow file where Cypress is launched, after running `npm run
test:cypress` (or similar), include a step like:

```yaml
- name: Mergify CI Upload
  if: success() || failure()
  uses: mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci@v6
  with:
    token: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
    report_path: cypress/results/junit*.xml
```

Key Points:

- `if: success() || failure()`: Runs the upload step even if tests
  fail, ensuring **CI Insights** has the full report.

- `report_path: src/junit.xml`: Points to where your JUnit file is located.
  Make sure it matches the `outputFile` path you set in Cypress (e.g.,
  `./cypress/results/junit-*.xml`).

## 3. Verify and Review in CI Insights

After pushing these changes:
1. Your GitHub Actions workflow will run tests with Cypress.
2. Cypress generates JUnit files.
3. The Mergify CI action uploads that file to CI Insights.

You can then see your test results, including failures and flaky tests,
directly in the CI Insights dashboard.

## Troubleshooting Tips

- File Paths: Double-check that `mochaFile` in Cypress matches the path used in
  `report_path`.

- Permissions: Make sure the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` is valid and setup in your GitHub
  Actions secrets [as explained in the
  docs]((/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github)).

- Workflow Conditions: If your step is not running, confirm the if condition is
  actually triggered in your job.

Commit message:

chore: improve documentation of the MERGIFY_TOKEN (#7120)
This makes clear MERGIFY_TOKEN is CI Insights token.
This move the note block just before we need the MERGIFY_TOKEN.
This adds the note block in all others pages.

src/content/docs/ci-insights/cypress.mdx, after:

---
title: Cypress Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from Cypress to CI Insights
---

import cypressLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/cypress/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={cypressLogo} alt="Cypress logo"/>

This guide shows how to configure [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) to produce
JUnit reports and upload them to CI Insights within a GitHub Actions workflow.

## 1. Generate a JUnit Report with Cypress

By default, Cypress doesn't generate JUnit-format test results. You need to
enable it in your `cypress.config.ts` file.

This is [documenteded on Cypress
website](https://docs.cypress.io/app/tooling/reporters).

The best way to do this is to leverage `cypress-multi-reporters` so you can
both have JUnit generated while keeping the standard output.

1. Add `cypress-multi-reporters` to your package file, e.g.,
   `npm install --save-dev cypress-multi-reporters mocha-junit-reporter`.

2. Create a `reporter-config.json` at the top of your repository with this
   configuration:
   ```yaml
   {
     "reporterEnabled": "spec, mocha-junit-reporter",
     "mochaJunitReporterReporterOptions": {
       "mochaFile": "cypress/results/junit-[hash].xml"
     }
   }
   ```

## 2. Update Your GitHub Actions Workflow

:::note
  Ensure your CI Insights token (`MERGIFY_TOKEN`) is set up as explained in the [installation
  docs](/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github).
:::

Once you have the JUnit file produced by Cypress, add a step to upload these
results to **CI Insights** via the `mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci` action.

In the workflow file where Cypress is launched, after running `npm run
test:cypress` (or similar), include a step like:

```yaml
- name: Mergify CI Upload
  if: success() || failure()
  uses: mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci@v6
  with:
    token: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
    report_path: cypress/results/junit*.xml
```

Key Points:

- `if: success() || failure()`: Runs the upload step even if tests
  fail, ensuring **CI Insights** has the full report.

- `report_path: src/junit.xml`: Points to where your JUnit file is located.
  Make sure it matches the `outputFile` path you set in Cypress (e.g.,
  `./cypress/results/junit-*.xml`).

## 3. Verify and Review in CI Insights

After pushing these changes:
1. Your GitHub Actions workflow will run tests with Cypress.
2. Cypress generates JUnit files.
3. The Mergify CI action uploads that file to CI Insights.

You can then see your test results, including failures and flaky tests,
directly in the CI Insights dashboard.

## Troubleshooting Tips

- File Paths: Double-check that `mochaFile` in Cypress matches the path used in
  `report_path`.

- Permissions: Make sure the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` is valid and setup in your GitHub
  Actions secrets [as explained in the
  docs]((/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github)).

- Workflow Conditions: If your step is not running, confirm the if condition is
  actually triggered in your job.
