src/content/docs/ci-insights/golang.mdx, before:

---
title: Go Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from Go tests to CI Insights
---

import golangLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/golang/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={golangLogo} alt="Golang logo"/>

This guide shows how to generate JUnit reports from your Go tests and upload
them to **CI Insights** using a GitHub Actions workflow.

## 1. Generate a JUnit Report with Go Tests

By default, `go test` does not output JUnit-format reports. To generate one,
pipe the verbose test output into a tool like
[go-junit-report](https://github.com/jstemmer/go-junit-report) or use
[gotestsum](https://github.com/gotestyourself/gotestsum).

### Using go-junit-report

```bash
go test -v ./... 2>&1 | go-junit-report > junit.xml
```

### Using gotestsum

```bash
gotestsum --junitfile junit.xml
```

## 2. Update Your GitHub Actions Workflow

After generating the JUnit report, add a step to upload the results to CI
Insights using the mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci action.

For example, in your workflow file:

```yaml
- name: Run Go Tests and Generate JUnit Report
  run: go test -v ./... 2>&1 | go-junit-report > junit.xml

- name: Mergify CI Upload
  if: success() || failure()
  uses: mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci@v6
  with:
    token: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
    report_path: junit.xml
```

## 3. Verify and Review in CI Insights

After pushing these changes:
1. Your GitHub Actions workflow will execute your Go tests.
2. A JUnit report (junit.xml) is generated.
3. The Mergify CI action uploads the report to CI Insights.

You can then review your test results, including any failures or flaky tests,
directly in the [CI Insights
dashboard](https://dashboard.mergify.com/ci-insights/jobs).

## Troubleshooting Tips

- File Paths: Double-check that the JUnit output file matches the path used in
  `report_path`.

- Permissions: Make sure the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` is valid and setup in your GitHub
  Actions secrets [as explained in the
  docs]((/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github)).

- Workflow Conditions: If your step is not running, confirm the if condition is
  actually triggered in your job.

Commit message:

chore: improve documentation of the MERGIFY_TOKEN
This makes clear MERGIFY_TOKEN is CI Insights token.
This move the note block just before we need the MERGIFY_TOKEN.
This adds the note block in all others pages.

Change-Id: If0a0e26774be95abcfe65c83453eaba9ebf287e2

src/content/docs/ci-insights/golang.mdx, after:

---
title: Go Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from Go tests to CI Insights
---

import golangLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/golang/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={golangLogo} alt="Golang logo"/>

This guide shows how to generate JUnit reports from your Go tests and upload
them to **CI Insights** using a GitHub Actions workflow.

## 1. Generate a JUnit Report with Go Tests

By default, `go test` does not output JUnit-format reports. To generate one,
pipe the verbose test output into a tool like
[go-junit-report](https://github.com/jstemmer/go-junit-report) or use
[gotestsum](https://github.com/gotestyourself/gotestsum).

### Using go-junit-report

```bash
go test -v ./... 2>&1 | go-junit-report > junit.xml
```

### Using gotestsum

```bash
gotestsum --junitfile junit.xml
```

## 2. Update Your GitHub Actions Workflow

:::note
  Ensure your CI Insights token (`MERGIFY_TOKEN`) is set up as explained in the [installation
  docs](/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github).
:::

After generating the JUnit report, add a step to upload the results to CI
Insights using the mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci action.

For example, in your workflow file:

```yaml
- name: Run Go Tests and Generate JUnit Report
  run: go test -v ./... 2>&1 | go-junit-report > junit.xml

- name: Mergify CI Upload
  if: success() || failure()
  uses: mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci@v6
  with:
    token: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
    report_path: junit.xml
```

## 3. Verify and Review in CI Insights

After pushing these changes:
1. Your GitHub Actions workflow will execute your Go tests.
2. A JUnit report (junit.xml) is generated.
3. The Mergify CI action uploads the report to CI Insights.

You can then review your test results, including any failures or flaky tests,
directly in the [CI Insights
dashboard](https://dashboard.mergify.com/ci-insights/jobs).

## Troubleshooting Tips

- File Paths: Double-check that the JUnit output file matches the path used in
  `report_path`.

- Permissions: Make sure the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` is valid and setup in your GitHub
  Actions secrets [as explained in the
  docs]((/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github)).

- Workflow Conditions: If your step is not running, confirm the if condition is
  actually triggered in your job.
