src/content/docs/ci-insights/pytest.mdx, before:

---
title: Pytest Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from pytest to CI Insights
---

import pytestLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/pytest/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={pytestLogo} alt="Pytest logo"/>

This guide explains how to integrate Pytest with CI Insights using the
`pytest-mergify` plugin. Once installed, test results are automatically
uploaded to CI Insights without any extra workflow changes.

## 1. Installation

You need to install the
[`pytest-mergify`](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pytest-mergify) plugin to
automatically upload your test results to **CI Insights**. This can be done in
different ways depending on your Python dependency setup. Below are a few
examples:

### Pip / Requirements File

```bash
pip install pytest-mergify
```

Or add `pytest-mergify` to your `requirements.txt`.

### `setup.py`

```python
setup(
    name="your-package",
    ...
    install_requires=[
        ...
    ],
    extras_require={
        "dev": ["pytest-mergify"]
    },
    ...
)
```

Make sure those dependencies are installed when running your tests.

### `setup.cfg`

```config
[options.extras_require]
dev =
    pytest-mergify
```

Make sure those dependencies are installed when running your tests.

### Poetry

```bash
poetry add --group dev pytest-mergify
```

## 2. Modify Your Workflow

:::note
  Ensure your CI Insights token (`MERGIFY_TOKEN`) is set up as explained in the [installation
  docs](/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github).
:::

Your workflow should run your tests as usual while exporting the secret
`MERGIFY_TOKEN` as an environment variable. You’ll need to add the following
code to the GitHub Actions step running your tests:

```yaml
env:
  MERGIFY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
```

For example:

```yaml
- name: Run Tests 🧪
  env:
    MERGIFY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
  run: pytest
```

The plugin collects your test results and sends them to CI Insights.

Check the CI Insights dashboard afterward to view execution metrics, detect
flaky tests, and gather actionable feedback.

## 3. Using with Tox

If you’re using [Tox](https://tox.wiki/) to manage test environments, you can
still use `pytest-mergify` by passing the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` and the rest of the
CI environment variable into the test environment.

In your GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml
- name: Run Tox Tests
  env:
    MERGIFY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
  run: tox
```

In your `tox.ini`, make sure the plugin is included in your testenv dependencies:

```ini
[testenv]
# You need to pass the MERGIFY_*, CI, GITHUB_*, etc variables
passenv = *
deps =
    pytest
    pytest-mergify
commands = pytest
```

If you’re using multiple environments (e.g. `py38`, `py39`, etc.), the plugin
will work for all of them as long as the token is set correctly.

Commit message:

chore: add GitHub matrix configuration (#7697)
Fixes MRGFY-5406

src/content/docs/ci-insights/pytest.mdx, after:

---
title: Pytest Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from pytest to CI Insights
---

import pytestLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/pytest/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={pytestLogo} alt="Pytest logo" />

This guide explains how to integrate Pytest with CI Insights using the
`pytest-mergify` plugin. Once installed, test results are automatically
uploaded to CI Insights without any extra workflow changes.

## 1. Installation

You need to install the
[`pytest-mergify`](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pytest-mergify) plugin to
automatically upload your test results to **CI Insights**. This can be done in
different ways depending on your Python dependency setup. Below are a few
examples:

### Pip / Requirements File

```bash
pip install pytest-mergify
```

Or add `pytest-mergify` to your `requirements.txt`.

### `setup.py`

```python
setup(
    name="your-package",
    ...
    install_requires=[
        ...
    ],
    extras_require={
        "dev": ["pytest-mergify"]
    },
    ...
)
```

Make sure those dependencies are installed when running your tests.

### `setup.cfg`

```config
[options.extras_require]
dev =
    pytest-mergify
```

Make sure those dependencies are installed when running your tests.

### Poetry

```bash
poetry add --group dev pytest-mergify
```

## 2. Modify Your Workflow

:::note
Ensure your CI Insights token (`MERGIFY_TOKEN`) is set up as explained in the [installation
docs](/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github).
:::

Your workflow should run your tests as usual while exporting the secret
`MERGIFY_TOKEN` as an environment variable. You’ll need to add the following
code to the GitHub Actions step running your tests:

```yaml
env:
  MERGIFY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
```

For example:

```yaml
- name: Run Tests 🧪
  env:
    MERGIFY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
  run: pytest
```

The plugin collects your test results and sends them to CI Insights.

Check the CI Insights dashboard afterward to view execution metrics, detect
flaky tests, and gather actionable feedback.

## 3. Using with Tox

If you’re using [Tox](https://tox.wiki/) to manage test environments, you can
still use `pytest-mergify` by passing the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` and the rest of the
CI environment variable into the test environment.

In your GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml
- name: Run Tox Tests
  env:
    MERGIFY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
  run: tox
```

In your `tox.ini`, make sure the plugin is included in your testenv dependencies:

```ini
[testenv]
# You need to pass the MERGIFY_*, CI, GITHUB_*, etc variables
passenv = *
deps =
    pytest
    pytest-mergify
commands = pytest
```

If you’re using multiple environments (e.g. `py38`, `py39`, etc.), the plugin
will work for all of them as long as the token is set correctly.

If you’re running multiple Tox environments (e.g., py38, py39, etc.), we
recommend setting the MERGIFY\_JOB\_NAME environment variable to identify each
environment’s report in CI Insights:

In your GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml
- name: Run Tox Tests
  env:
    MERGIFY_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
    MERGIFY_JOB_NAME: tox-${{ matrix.python-version }}
  run: tox
```

:::tip
Use MERGIFY\_JOB\_NAME to make reports clearer in CI Insights, especially when
running multiple Tox environments or using a matrix.
:::
