src/content/docs/ci-insights/vitest.mdx, before:

---
title: Vitest Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from Vitest to CI Insights
---

import vitestLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/vitest/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={vitestLogo} alt="Vitest logo"/>

This guide shows how to configure [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) to produce
JUnit reports and upload them to CI Insights within a GitHub Actions workflow.

## 1. Generate a JUnit Report with Vitest

By default, Vitest doesn't generate JUnit-format test results. You need to
enable it in your `vite.config.ts` or `vitest.config.ts`.

This is [documenteded on vitest
website](https://vitest.dev/guide/reporters#junit-reporter).

For example:

```javascript
export default defineConfig(({ mode }) => {
  return {
    test: {
      reporters: ['default', 'junit'],
      outputFile: './junit.xml',
      includeConsoleOutput: true,
    },
  };
});
```

Key Options:

- `reporters: ['default', 'junit']`: Tells Vitest to generate JUnit reports
alongside the standard console output.

- `outputFile: './junit.xml'`: Sets the path where Vitest writes the test
  results (you can rename or relocate as you prefer).

- `includeConsoleOutput: true`: Ensures console logs are captured in the final
  report.

## 2. Update Your GitHub Actions Workflow

Once you have the JUnit file produced by Vitest, add a step to upload these
results to **CI Insights** via the `mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci` action.

In the workflow file where vitest is launched, after running `npm run test` (or
similar), include a step like:

```yaml
- name: Mergify CI Upload
  if: success() || failure()
  uses: mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci@v6
  with:
    token: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
    report_path: src/junit.xml
```

Key Points:

- `if: success() || failure()`: Runs the upload step even if tests
  fail, ensuring **CI Insights** has the full report.

- `report_path: src/junit.xml`: Points to where your JUnit file is located.
  Make sure it matches the `outputFile` path you set in Vitest (e.g.,
  `./junit.xml`).

## 3. Verify and Review in CI Insights

After pushing these changes:
1. Your GitHub Actions workflow will run tests with Vitest.
2. Vitest generates junit.xml.
3. The Mergify CI action uploads that file to CI Insights.

You can then see your test results, including failures and flaky tests,
directly in the CI Insights dashboard.

## Troubleshooting Tips

- File Paths: Double-check that `outputFile` in Vitest matches the path used in
  `report_path`.

- Permissions: Make sure the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` is valid and setup in your GitHub
  Actions secrets [as explained in the docs]((/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github)).

- Workflow Conditions: If your step is not running, confirm the if condition is
  actually triggered in your job.

Commit message:

chore: improve documentation of the MERGIFY_TOKEN (#7120)
This makes clear MERGIFY_TOKEN is CI Insights token.
This move the note block just before we need the MERGIFY_TOKEN.
This adds the note block in all others pages.

src/content/docs/ci-insights/vitest.mdx, after:

---
title: Vitest Integration with CI Insights
description: Report your test results from Vitest to CI Insights
---

import vitestLogo from "../../images/ci-insights/vitest/logo.svg"
import IntegrationLogo from "../../../components/IntegrationLogo.astro"

<IntegrationLogo src={vitestLogo} alt="Vitest logo"/>

This guide shows how to configure [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) to produce
JUnit reports and upload them to CI Insights within a GitHub Actions workflow.

## 1. Generate a JUnit Report with Vitest

By default, Vitest doesn't generate JUnit-format test results. You need to
enable it in your `vite.config.ts` or `vitest.config.ts`.

This is [documenteded on vitest
website](https://vitest.dev/guide/reporters#junit-reporter).

For example:

```javascript
export default defineConfig(({ mode }) => {
  return {
    test: {
      reporters: ['default', 'junit'],
      outputFile: './junit.xml',
      includeConsoleOutput: true,
    },
  };
});
```

Key Options:

- `reporters: ['default', 'junit']`: Tells Vitest to generate JUnit reports
alongside the standard console output.

- `outputFile: './junit.xml'`: Sets the path where Vitest writes the test
  results (you can rename or relocate as you prefer).

- `includeConsoleOutput: true`: Ensures console logs are captured in the final
  report.

## 2. Update Your GitHub Actions Workflow

:::note
  Ensure your CI Insights token (`MERGIFY_TOKEN`) is set up as explained in the [installation
  docs](/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github).
:::

Once you have the JUnit file produced by Vitest, add a step to upload these
results to **CI Insights** via the `mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci` action.

In the workflow file where vitest is launched, after running `npm run test` (or
similar), include a step like:

```yaml
- name: Mergify CI Upload
  if: success() || failure()
  uses: mergifyio/gha-mergify-ci@v6
  with:
    token: ${{ secrets.MERGIFY_TOKEN }}
    report_path: src/junit.xml
```

Key Points:

- `if: success() || failure()`: Runs the upload step even if tests
  fail, ensuring **CI Insights** has the full report.

- `report_path: src/junit.xml`: Points to where your JUnit file is located.
  Make sure it matches the `outputFile` path you set in Vitest (e.g.,
  `./junit.xml`).

## 3. Verify and Review in CI Insights

After pushing these changes:
1. Your GitHub Actions workflow will run tests with Vitest.
2. Vitest generates junit.xml.
3. The Mergify CI action uploads that file to CI Insights.

You can then see your test results, including failures and flaky tests,
directly in the CI Insights dashboard.

## Troubleshooting Tips

- File Paths: Double-check that `outputFile` in Vitest matches the path used in
  `report_path`.

- Permissions: Make sure the `MERGIFY_TOKEN` is valid and setup in your GitHub
  Actions secrets [as explained in the docs]((/ci-insights#enabling-ci-insights-for-github)).

- Workflow Conditions: If your step is not running, confirm the if condition is
  actually triggered in your job.
