src/content/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Mergify Documentation
description: Explore & learn Mergify
toc: false
---

import {ButtonGroup, VStack} from '@chakra-ui/react';
import {
  CommunityButton,
  Docset,
  DocsetGrid,
} from '../components/HomePage';
import {SiSlack, SiGithub, SiTwitter, SiYoutube, SiLinkedin} from 'react-icons/si';
import {GoGitMerge, GoGitCommit} from 'react-icons/go';
import {BsDoorOpen, BsLightningCharge, BsListTask, BsRobot, BsChatText, BsType} from 'react-icons/bs';
import {AiOutlineStop} from 'react-icons/ai';

Welcome to Mergify Documentation. 
Explore our guides and examples on how to integrate Mergify.

## Workflow Automation

Automate your GitHub pull requests workflow.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Writing Your First Rule"
    description="Write your first automation rule using Mergify workflow automation."
    path="/workflow/writing-your-first-rule"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

### Workflow Automation Use Cases

Discover a list of use cases that you can leverage with Mergify. Get inspired
and adapt it to your own needs.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Automatic Merge"
    description="Merge your pull requests as soon as they are ready."
    path="/workflow/automatic-merge"
    icon={<GoGitMerge/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Automatic Merge from Bots"
    description="Merge pull requests created by bots automatically."
    path="/workflow/auto-merge-bots"
    icon={<BsRobot/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Posting Comments"
    description="Post comments to help your teammates."
    path="/workflow/comments"
    icon={<BsChatText/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Backporting"
    description="Understand how to backports pull requests from one branch to another."
    path="/workflow/backports"
    icon={<BsDoorOpen/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Triggering CI conditionally"
    description="Optimize your CI cost and run by triggering it only when necessary."
    path="/workflow/trigger-ci"
    icon={<BsListTask/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Resolving Conflicts Faster"
    description="Be aware as soon as a pull request is in conflict to reduce merge latency."
    path="/workflow/pull-requests-conflicts"
    icon={<BsLightningCharge/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Using Commit Message Template"
    description="Make sure your Git history is properly formatted with commit message template."
    path="/workflow/commit-message-template"
    icon={<GoGitCommit/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Enforce Semantic Pull Requests"
    description="Make sure your pull requests change format follows your guidelines."
    path="/workflow/semantic-pull-requests"
    icon={<BsType/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Limiting Commands Permissions"
    description="Limit which users can run commands."
    path="/workflow/commands-permissions"
    icon={<AiOutlineStop/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Merge Queue

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Introduction to Merge Queues"
    description="Understand what merge queues are and how to use them."
    path="/merge-queue/intro"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Setting Up Your First Merge Queue"
    description="Implement your first merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/setup"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Pull Request Lifecycle"
    description="Understand the lifecycle of a pull request before and once it enters a merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/lifecycle"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Piorities"
    description="Learn how to order your pull requests in the queue by priority."
    path="/merge-queue/priority"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Freeze"
    description="Learn how to freeze your merge queues during incidents or planned events."
    path="/merge-queue/freeze"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Using Multiple Queues"
    description="Learn how to implement multiple merge queues and route your pull requests."
    path="/merge-queue/multi"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Speculative Checks"
    description="Increase your merge queue throughput by using speculative checks."
    path="/merge-queue/speculative-checks"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Batches"
    description="Increase your merge queue throughput and decrease your CI usage."
    path="/merge-queue/batch"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Technical Reference

Detailed documentation about every part of Mergify.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Configuration File Format"
    description="Details of the configuration file format"
    path="/configuration/file-format"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Conditions"
    description="Everything you need to know when writing your conditions."
    path="/configuration/conditions"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Configuration Data Types"
    description="Details of the data types found in the configuration"
    path="/configuration/data-types"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Actions"
    description="A complete list of actions you can use with Mergify."
    path="/actions"
  />
 <Docset
    title="Commands"
    description="Complete list of commands you can use with Mergify."
    path="/commands"
  />
  <Docset
    title="API"
    description="Learn about using Mergify's API."
    path="/api"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
 <Docset
    title="Integrations"
    description="Integration with other systems."
    path="/integration"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Badge"
    description="Display your Mergify usage publicly."
    path="/badge"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Security"
    description="Discussing Mergify's security."
    path="/security"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<VStack pt="4" spacing="4" textAlign="center" maxW="md" mx="auto">

### Join our Community 💬

We love hearing from you! Here are a few ways you can connect with us and other Mergify community members.

<ButtonGroup variant="ghost">
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://github.com/Mergifyio/mergify/discussions"
    icon={<SiGithub />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.youtube.com/@mergifyio"
    icon={<SiYoutube />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://slack.mergify.com"
    icon={<SiSlack />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://twitter.com/mergifyio"
    icon={<SiTwitter />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.linkedin.com/company/mergify/"
    icon={<SiLinkedin />}
  />
</ButtonGroup>

</VStack>

Commit message:

docs(mq): add speculative checks

src/content/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Mergify Documentation
description: Explore & learn Mergify
toc: false
---

import {ButtonGroup, VStack} from '@chakra-ui/react';
import {
  CommunityButton,
  Docset,
  DocsetGrid,
} from '../components/HomePage';
import {SiSlack, SiGithub, SiTwitter, SiYoutube, SiLinkedin} from 'react-icons/si';
import {GoGitMerge, GoGitCommit} from 'react-icons/go';
import {BsDoorOpen, BsLightningCharge, BsListTask, BsRobot, BsChatText, BsType} from 'react-icons/bs';
import {AiOutlineStop} from 'react-icons/ai';

Welcome to Mergify Documentation. 
Explore our guides and examples on how to integrate Mergify.

## Workflow Automation

Automate your GitHub pull requests workflow.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Writing Your First Rule"
    description="Write your first automation rule using Mergify workflow automation."
    path="/workflow/writing-your-first-rule"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

### Workflow Automation Use Cases

Discover a list of use cases that you can leverage with Mergify. Get inspired
and adapt it to your own needs.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Automatic Merge"
    description="Merge your pull requests as soon as they are ready."
    path="/workflow/automatic-merge"
    icon={<GoGitMerge/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Automatic Merge from Bots"
    description="Merge pull requests created by bots automatically."
    path="/workflow/auto-merge-bots"
    icon={<BsRobot/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Posting Comments"
    description="Post comments to help your teammates."
    path="/workflow/comments"
    icon={<BsChatText/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Backporting"
    description="Understand how to backports pull requests from one branch to another."
    path="/workflow/backports"
    icon={<BsDoorOpen/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Triggering CI conditionally"
    description="Optimize your CI cost and run by triggering it only when necessary."
    path="/workflow/trigger-ci"
    icon={<BsListTask/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Resolving Conflicts Faster"
    description="Be aware as soon as a pull request is in conflict to reduce merge latency."
    path="/workflow/pull-requests-conflicts"
    icon={<BsLightningCharge/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Using Commit Message Template"
    description="Make sure your Git history is properly formatted with commit message template."
    path="/workflow/commit-message-template"
    icon={<GoGitCommit/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Enforce Semantic Pull Requests"
    description="Make sure your pull requests change format follows your guidelines."
    path="/workflow/semantic-pull-requests"
    icon={<BsType/>}
  />
  <Docset
    title="Limiting Commands Permissions"
    description="Limit which users can run commands."
    path="/workflow/commands-permissions"
    icon={<AiOutlineStop/>}
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Merge Queue

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Getting Started"
    description="Learn how to deploy Mergify on your repositories."
    path="/getting-started"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Introduction to Merge Queues"
    description="Understand what merge queues are and how to use them."
    path="/merge-queue/intro"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Setting Up Your First Merge Queue"
    description="Implement your first merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/setup"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Pull Request Lifecycle"
    description="Understand the lifecycle of a pull request before and once it enters a merge queue."
    path="/merge-queue/lifecycle"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Using Piorities"
    description="Learn how to order your pull requests in the queue by priority."
    path="/merge-queue/priority"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Freeze"
    description="Learn how to freeze your merge queues during incidents or planned events."
    path="/merge-queue/freeze"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Using Multiple Queues"
    description="Learn how to implement multiple merge queues and route your pull requests."
    path="/merge-queue/multi"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Speculative Checks"
    description="Accelerates the merging process by testing the compatibility of multiple queued pull requests in parallel."
    path="/merge-queue/speculative-checks"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Batches"
    description="Increase your merge queue throughput and decrease your CI usage."
    path="/merge-queue/batch"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

## Technical Reference

Detailed documentation about every part of Mergify.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Configuration File Format"
    description="Details of the configuration file format"
    path="/configuration/file-format"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Conditions"
    description="Everything you need to know when writing your conditions."
    path="/configuration/conditions"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Configuration Data Types"
    description="Details of the data types found in the configuration"
    path="/configuration/data-types"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Actions"
    description="A complete list of actions you can use with Mergify."
    path="/actions"
  />
 <Docset
    title="Commands"
    description="Complete list of commands you can use with Mergify."
    path="/commands"
  />
  <Docset
    title="API"
    description="Learn about using Mergify's API."
    path="/api"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<DocsetGrid>
 <Docset
    title="Integrations"
    description="Integration with other systems."
    path="/integration"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Badge"
    description="Display your Mergify usage publicly."
    path="/badge"
  />
  <Docset
    title="Security"
    description="Discussing Mergify's security."
    path="/security"
  />
</DocsetGrid>

<VStack pt="4" spacing="4" textAlign="center" maxW="md" mx="auto">

### Join our Community 💬

We love hearing from you! Here are a few ways you can connect with us and other Mergify community members.

<ButtonGroup variant="ghost">
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://github.com/Mergifyio/mergify/discussions"
    icon={<SiGithub />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.youtube.com/@mergifyio"
    icon={<SiYoutube />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://slack.mergify.com"
    icon={<SiSlack />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://twitter.com/mergifyio"
    icon={<SiTwitter />}
  />
  <CommunityButton
    href="https://www.linkedin.com/company/mergify/"
    icon={<SiLinkedin />}
  />
</ButtonGroup>

</VStack>
