src/content/docs/merge-queue/deploy.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploying your Merge Queue
description: Smoothly transition to Mergify while optimizing the merge queue and potentially moving to Mergify exclusive merges.
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets";
import bpDashboardScreenshot from "../../images/merge-queue/deploy/dashboard.png"

Deploying and transitioning to Mergify's Merge Queue involves two potential
phases, each corresponding to different organizational preferences and maturity
with the tool:

1. **Hybrid Phase**: This phase allows for a mix, where manual merges and
   Mergify coexist, aiding teams in the transitional period. This approach does
   not disrupt existing workflows drastically and lets teams gradually adapt to
   the automated merge queue.

2. **Exclusive Mergify Merge Phase**: In this phase, organizations can choose
   to enforce that only Mergify merges the pull requests, leveraging GitHub
   rulesets. This ensures a more streamlined, organized, and
   automated approach to merging.

None of those phases are mandatory, and they are defined here mostly as
guidelines to inspire what your deployment scenario could be, and what your
final workflow could look like.

## Phase 1: Hybrid Phase — Coexisting Manual and Mergify Merges

### Understanding the Hybrid Approach

In the hybrid phase, while the automated queue is in place, developers can
still merge manually as usual. This flexibility is especially useful when
transitioning gradually, ensuring minimal disruption to existing workflows.

### Potential Drawbacks

- **Queue Disruption**: Manual merges might interrupt the flow of the automated
  merge queue, making the process less optimal.

- **Extra CI Time**: When manual merges bypass the queue, it might reset the
  jobs scheduled in Mergify, resulting in additional CI time and resource
  usage.

### Steps for Hybrid Phase

1. **Educate the Team**: Brief the team on the new Mergify queue system and its
   benefits, encouraging them to prioritize the queue over manual merges.

2. **Monitor Usage**: Regularly check how often the queue is being bypassed and
   encourage more use of Mergify for merging. You can monitor usage by checking
   who merged a pull request and notify someone when the queue is bypassed
   using an automation rule:
   ```yaml
   pull_request_rules:
     - name: notify on manual merge
       conditions:
         - merged
         - merged-by != mergify[bot]
       actions:
         comment:
           # replace <your-username> by your GitHub login
           # or use {{author}} if you want the PR author to be notified.
           message: Hey @<your-username>, this PR has been merged manually.
   ```

3. **Gather Feedback**: Understand any resistance or issues the team is facing
   with using the Mergify queue and address them promptly.

## Phase 2: Exclusive Mergify Merge Phase

### Enforcing Mergify for Merging

Once the team is comfortable with Mergify, you can choose to enforce Mergify
exclusively for merging pull requests through GitHub rulesets.

### Steps to Enforce Exclusive Mergify Merges

1. **Go to Merge Queue Deploy**: Navigate to `Merge Queue` in your Mergify
   dashboard and locate the `Deploy` section.

   <Image src={bpDashboardScreenshot} alt="Deploy screen from Mergify dashboad"/>

2. **Follow the instructions**: Configure your ruleset according to the
   instructions.

3. **Verify your ruleset configuration**: Click on the verification button to
   make sure your configuration is correct.

## Handling the Improbable: What to Do in the Event of a Mergify Outage

At Mergify, our mission is to ensure consistent and uninterrupted service to
aid your development processes. While we pride ourselves on our robust and
resilient infrastructure, we also believe in transparency and preparation.

While the scenario painted here is improbable and not one we foresee, it's
always wise to be prepared. Rest assured, with Mergify, even in the rarest of
circumstances, your workflow remains in your control. Our commitment is not
just to provide an exceptional service but also to ensure you're equipped for
every eventuality.

### Unlikely, But Not Impossible

Let's address the elephant in the room: though it's a scenario we've worked
hard to avoid and has never occurred, an outage, however brief, remains within
the realm of possibilities. In the unlikely event of such an interruption, it's
essential to understand that your development and deployment will not come to a
halt.

### The Power is Still Yours

Remember:

- **Manual merges are always an option**: Even if Mergify is momentarily
  unreachable, you can merge your pull requests manually. This ensures that
  your workflow remains uninterrupted.

- **Admin privileges remain supreme**: In instances where Mergify is the only
  authorized application to merge, administrators can still override rulesets
  and enforce a merge. Your admin privileges grant you the autonomy to take the
  necessary actions.

- **Ruleset flexibility**: If needed, rulesets can be temporarily disabled,
  allowing your engineering team to merge pull requests manually and bypass the
  merge queue. This is a contingency to ensure your operations don't stall,
  even for a moment.

## Conclusion

Transitioning to Mergify can be a smooth process, whether you choose to operate
in a hybrid mode initially or move directly to exclusive Mergify merges. By
configuring appropriately and addressing the team's needs and concerns during
the transition, you can ensure a more efficient, orderly, and automated
development workflow.

Remember, the transition to Mergify is not just about enforcing new tools but
about optimizing workflows and fostering a collaborative and efficient
development environment. Take the time to educate, adapt, and make the most out
of Mergify's capabilities!

Commit message:

docs: mention reset_on_external_merge (#6762)
Fixes MRGFY-4996

src/content/docs/merge-queue/deploy.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploying your Merge Queue
description: Smoothly transition to Mergify while optimizing the merge queue and potentially moving to Mergify exclusive merges.
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets";
import bpDashboardScreenshot from "../../images/merge-queue/deploy/dashboard.png"

Deploying and transitioning to Mergify's Merge Queue involves two potential
phases, each corresponding to different organizational preferences and maturity
with the tool:

1. **Hybrid Phase**: This phase allows for a mix, where manual merges and
   Mergify coexist, aiding teams in the transitional period. This approach does
   not disrupt existing workflows drastically and lets teams gradually adapt to
   the automated merge queue.

2. **Exclusive Mergify Merge Phase**: In this phase, organizations can choose
   to enforce that only Mergify merges the pull requests, leveraging GitHub
   rulesets. This ensures a more streamlined, organized, and
   automated approach to merging.

None of those phases are mandatory, and they are defined here mostly as
guidelines to inspire what your deployment scenario could be, and what your
final workflow could look like.

## Phase 1: Hybrid Phase — Coexisting Manual and Mergify Merges

### Understanding the Hybrid Approach

In the hybrid phase, while the automated queue is in place, developers can
still merge manually as usual. This flexibility is especially useful when
transitioning gradually, ensuring minimal disruption to existing workflows.

### Potential Drawbacks

- **Queue Disruption**: Manual merges might interrupt the flow of the automated
  merge queue, making the process less optimal.

- **Extra CI Time**: When manual merges bypass the queue, it might reset the
  jobs scheduled in Mergify, resulting in additional CI time and resource
  usage. You can disable this behavior with the `reset_on_external_merge:
  never` setting.

### Steps for Hybrid Phase

1. **Educate the Team**: Brief the team on the new Mergify queue system and its
   benefits, encouraging them to prioritize the queue over manual merges.

2. **Monitor Usage**: Regularly check how often the queue is being bypassed and
   encourage more use of Mergify for merging. You can monitor usage by checking
   who merged a pull request and notify someone when the queue is bypassed
   using an automation rule:
   ```yaml
   pull_request_rules:
     - name: notify on manual merge
       conditions:
         - merged
         - merged-by != mergify[bot]
       actions:
         comment:
           # replace <your-username> by your GitHub login
           # or use {{author}} if you want the PR author to be notified.
           message: Hey @<your-username>, this PR has been merged manually.
   ```

3. **Gather Feedback**: Understand any resistance or issues the team is facing
   with using the Mergify queue and address them promptly.

## Phase 2: Exclusive Mergify Merge Phase

### Enforcing Mergify for Merging

Once the team is comfortable with Mergify, you can choose to enforce Mergify
exclusively for merging pull requests through GitHub rulesets.

### Steps to Enforce Exclusive Mergify Merges

1. **Go to Merge Queue Deploy**: Navigate to `Merge Queue` in your Mergify
   dashboard and locate the `Deploy` section.

   <Image src={bpDashboardScreenshot} alt="Deploy screen from Mergify dashboad"/>

2. **Follow the instructions**: Configure your ruleset according to the
   instructions.

3. **Verify your ruleset configuration**: Click on the verification button to
   make sure your configuration is correct.

## Handling the Improbable: What to Do in the Event of a Mergify Outage

At Mergify, our mission is to ensure consistent and uninterrupted service to
aid your development processes. While we pride ourselves on our robust and
resilient infrastructure, we also believe in transparency and preparation.

While the scenario painted here is improbable and not one we foresee, it's
always wise to be prepared. Rest assured, with Mergify, even in the rarest of
circumstances, your workflow remains in your control. Our commitment is not
just to provide an exceptional service but also to ensure you're equipped for
every eventuality.

### Unlikely, But Not Impossible

Let's address the elephant in the room: though it's a scenario we've worked
hard to avoid and has never occurred, an outage, however brief, remains within
the realm of possibilities. In the unlikely event of such an interruption, it's
essential to understand that your development and deployment will not come to a
halt.

### The Power is Still Yours

Remember:

- **Manual merges are always an option**: Even if Mergify is momentarily
  unreachable, you can merge your pull requests manually. This ensures that
  your workflow remains uninterrupted.

- **Admin privileges remain supreme**: In instances where Mergify is the only
  authorized application to merge, administrators can still override rulesets
  and enforce a merge. Your admin privileges grant you the autonomy to take the
  necessary actions.

- **Ruleset flexibility**: If needed, rulesets can be temporarily disabled,
  allowing your engineering team to merge pull requests manually and bypass the
  merge queue. This is a contingency to ensure your operations don't stall,
  even for a moment.

## Conclusion

Transitioning to Mergify can be a smooth process, whether you choose to operate
in a hybrid mode initially or move directly to exclusive Mergify merges. By
configuring appropriately and addressing the team's needs and concerns during
the transition, you can ensure a more efficient, orderly, and automated
development workflow.

Remember, the transition to Mergify is not just about enforcing new tools but
about optimizing workflows and fostering a collaborative and efficient
development environment. Take the time to educate, adapt, and make the most out
of Mergify's capabilities!
