src/content/docs/merge-queue/parallel-checks.mdx, before:

---
title: Parallel Checks
description: Accelerates the merging process by testing the compatibility of multiple queued pull requests in parallel.
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets"
import specChecksDetailsScreenshot from "../../images/merge-queue/parallel-checks/spec-checks-details.png"
import specChecksListScreenshot from "../../images/merge-queue/parallel-checks/spec-checks-list.png"

In the context of software development, waiting for pull requests (PRs) to
merge one after another can be time-consuming, especially when each one needs
to pass through continuous integration (CI) pipelines. This is where
**Parallel Checks** come into play.

Parallel checks, as part of Mergify's queuing feature, facilitate the
simultaneous testing of multiple PRs to speed up the merging process. They test
a set of PRs together to ensure compatibility before committing them to the
main branch.

At its core, parallel checks aim to hasten the PR merging process by
proactively identifying potential merge conflicts or test failures, thereby
saving valuable development time. This introduction will guide you in grasping
the concept of parallel checks, their functionality, and the optimal way to
set them up.

## How Parallel Checks Work

The parallel checks functionality operates by grouping multiple pull requests
together based on their order in the queue and the `max_parallel_checks` value
set in your Mergify configuration file. These PRs are then tested together in a
speculative manner, meaning they are combined and tested as if they were going
to be merged.

Consider a situation where you have 5 pull requests (PR #1 to PR #5) and
`max_parallel_checks` is set to 3. In this case, Mergify would create three
temporary PRs:

- Temporary PR #1: Combines PR #1
- Temporary PR #2: Combines PR #1 and PR #2
- Temporary PR #3: Combines PR #1, PR #2, and PR #3

```dot class="graph"
strict digraph g {
    rankdir="LR"
    node [group="pr", shape=box, style="rounded,filled", fillcolor="#53A9DB", fillcolor="#28A744", fontcolor=white, fontname="sans-serif"]
    edge [fontname="sans-serif", arrowhead=inv];
    fontname="sans-serif";

    subgraph cluster_mergequeue {
        label = "Merge Queue"
        style="filled,rounded,striped"
        fillcolor="#C9E7F8:#2A6F96"
        fontcolor=white
        fontsize="9pt"

        subgraph cluster_specmerge {
            label="Speculative Merge"
            style="rounded,filled"
            fillcolor="#53A9DB"
            fontcolor=white
            fontsize="9pt"
            pr1 [label="PR #1"]
            pr2 [label="PR #2"]
            pr3 [label="PR #3"]
            pr1 -> pr2;
            pr2 -> pr3;
        }

        pr4 [label="PR #4"]
        pr5 [label="PR #5"]
        pr3 ->pr4;
        pr4 ->pr5;
    }

    subgraph cluster_mergetrain {
        label = "Speculative Checks"
        fillcolor="#067ABD"
        style="filled"
        fontcolor=white
        fontsize="9pt"
        traincar1 [label=" PR#1 "]
        traincar2 [label=" PR#1 + PR #2 "]
        traincar3 [label=" PR#1 + PR #2 + PR #3 "]
    }

    edge [arrowhead=normal]
    pr1:s -> traincar1:w
    pr2:s -> traincar2:w
    pr3:s -> traincar3:w

    subgraph ci {
        // CI connections
        ci [label="Continuous\nIntegration", fixedsize=false, style="filled", fillcolor="#034870", fontcolor=white, penwidth=1.5]
        edge [arrowhead=none, style=dashed, arrowsize=0.5, arrowtail=normal, color="#DBAB0A", dir=both, penwidth=1, fontcolor="#DBAB0A"];
        traincar1 -> ci;
        traincar2 -> ci;
        traincar3 -> ci;
    }
}

```

These temporary PRs are created to facilitate parallel testing via your
continuous integration (CI) pipelines. The goal is to validate the merged
outcome of every PR in the queue in advance, ensuring they meet the
`queue_rules` merge conditions. If any of the PRs fails, it is removed from the
queue, identifying it as the source of the failure.

<Image src={specChecksListScreenshot} alt="Mergify parallel checks" />

The result is an efficient PR processing workflow that ensures rapid and
successful merges while minimizing the risk of merge conflicts and test
failures.

<Image src={specChecksDetailsScreenshot} alt="Mergify parallel checks details" />

:::note
  Mergify does not merge the temporary draft PRs, but rather merges the
  original PR once they pass the speculative checks. It is possible to merge
  the draft PR themselves — see [Merging the Draft PRs](#merging-the-draft-prs).
:::

## Configuring Parallel Checks

Configuring parallel checks requires the use of the `max_parallel_checks`
setting in your Mergify configuration file. The value for `max_parallel_checks`
determines the maximum number of PRs that can be embarked together for parallel
checking.

Here's a sample configuration:

```yaml
merge_queue:
  max_parallel_checks: 3

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    merge_conditions:
      - "#approved-reviews-by >= 2"
      - check-success = test
```

In the above example, Mergify will embark up to 3 PRs together for parallel
checking. Note that this doesn't mean that only 3 PRs will be in the queue — it
simply dictates the maximum number of PRs that can be scheduled together for
simultaneous testing.

Remember, parallel checks are optional and the use of this feature depends on
your specific project needs. You may need to adjust the `max_parallel_checks`
value depending on the CI resources available and the typical size and
complexity of PRs in your project.

## Handling Issues with Parallel Checks

When parallel checks are underway, certain issues can lead to changes in the
way the PRs are being processed. Here's what happens in the event of various
issues.

### Failed Checks

If any of the embarked PRs fail the checks defined in `merge_conditions`, that
PR is removed from the queue. The checks are then re-run on the remaining PRs.

### Changes to Queue Rules or PRs

If an embarked PR no longer matches the `queue_conditions`, it is removed from
the queue. Similarly, all PRs embarked after the removed PR are also
disembarked and re-embarked according to their new order in the queue, making
Mergify launches new checks.

This situation can occur when there are changes to the PR itself (such as a new
commit or a change in labels) or changes to the `queue_conditions`. In either
case, the queue is updated and the speculative check process is restarted.

### New Commit on the Base Branch

If a new commit is pushed to the base branch while parallel checks are
underway, Mergify resets the process. The checks start over again with the
updated base branch. This ensures that the merged code will be up-to-date with
the latest version of the base branch.

In all these scenarios, the parallel checks process is dynamic and adjusts
itself to the changes, ensuring that the merged code meets the criteria defined
in the `queue_rules`.

## Important Considerations

While parallel checks can greatly speed up the merging process, there are a few
important considerations to keep in mind when using this feature:

### Branch Protection Settings

Parallel checks operate by creating temporary pull requests, which merge
multiple PRs with the base branch. This process requires the branch protection
setting `Require branches to be up to date before merging` to be disabled.

This does not mean that Mergify will test outdated PRs, but it will merge the
original pull requests once its parallel checks is finished. The original PR
won't be up-to-date according to GitHub, which means using this setting would
block the merge.

### Parallel Checks Limit

You can set the number of parallel speculative checks by adjusting the
`max_parallel_checks` value in the `merge_queue` section, at the root of your
Mergify configuration file. The value can range from 1 to 128, depending on
your requirements and available CI resources.

### Queued PR Changes

Remember that changes to PRs or the queue can disrupt the parallel checks
process. If a PR is updated or changed in a way that it no longer meets the
`queue_rules`, it will be removed from the queue, and the order of checks will
be updated. In such cases, the process resets, and the remaining PRs are
rechecked in their new order.

### Transferring Labels

import LabelCopier from  './_mergify-merge-queue-labels-copier.mdx'

<LabelCopier />

Commit message:

docs: mention reset_on_external_merge (#6762)
Fixes MRGFY-4996

src/content/docs/merge-queue/parallel-checks.mdx, after:

---
title: Parallel Checks
description: Accelerates the merging process by testing the compatibility of multiple queued pull requests in parallel.
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets"
import specChecksDetailsScreenshot from "../../images/merge-queue/parallel-checks/spec-checks-details.png"
import specChecksListScreenshot from "../../images/merge-queue/parallel-checks/spec-checks-list.png"

In the context of software development, waiting for pull requests (PRs) to
merge one after another can be time-consuming, especially when each one needs
to pass through continuous integration (CI) pipelines. This is where
**Parallel Checks** come into play.

Parallel checks, as part of Mergify's queuing feature, facilitate the
simultaneous testing of multiple PRs to speed up the merging process. They test
a set of PRs together to ensure compatibility before committing them to the
main branch.

At its core, parallel checks aim to hasten the PR merging process by
proactively identifying potential merge conflicts or test failures, thereby
saving valuable development time. This introduction will guide you in grasping
the concept of parallel checks, their functionality, and the optimal way to
set them up.

## How Parallel Checks Work

The parallel checks functionality operates by grouping multiple pull requests
together based on their order in the queue and the `max_parallel_checks` value
set in your Mergify configuration file. These PRs are then tested together in a
speculative manner, meaning they are combined and tested as if they were going
to be merged.

Consider a situation where you have 5 pull requests (PR #1 to PR #5) and
`max_parallel_checks` is set to 3. In this case, Mergify would create three
temporary PRs:

- Temporary PR #1: Combines PR #1
- Temporary PR #2: Combines PR #1 and PR #2
- Temporary PR #3: Combines PR #1, PR #2, and PR #3

```dot class="graph"
strict digraph g {
    rankdir="LR"
    node [group="pr", shape=box, style="rounded,filled", fillcolor="#53A9DB", fillcolor="#28A744", fontcolor=white, fontname="sans-serif"]
    edge [fontname="sans-serif", arrowhead=inv];
    fontname="sans-serif";

    subgraph cluster_mergequeue {
        label = "Merge Queue"
        style="filled,rounded,striped"
        fillcolor="#C9E7F8:#2A6F96"
        fontcolor=white
        fontsize="9pt"

        subgraph cluster_specmerge {
            label="Speculative Merge"
            style="rounded,filled"
            fillcolor="#53A9DB"
            fontcolor=white
            fontsize="9pt"
            pr1 [label="PR #1"]
            pr2 [label="PR #2"]
            pr3 [label="PR #3"]
            pr1 -> pr2;
            pr2 -> pr3;
        }

        pr4 [label="PR #4"]
        pr5 [label="PR #5"]
        pr3 ->pr4;
        pr4 ->pr5;
    }

    subgraph cluster_mergetrain {
        label = "Speculative Checks"
        fillcolor="#067ABD"
        style="filled"
        fontcolor=white
        fontsize="9pt"
        traincar1 [label=" PR#1 "]
        traincar2 [label=" PR#1 + PR #2 "]
        traincar3 [label=" PR#1 + PR #2 + PR #3 "]
    }

    edge [arrowhead=normal]
    pr1:s -> traincar1:w
    pr2:s -> traincar2:w
    pr3:s -> traincar3:w

    subgraph ci {
        // CI connections
        ci [label="Continuous\nIntegration", fixedsize=false, style="filled", fillcolor="#034870", fontcolor=white, penwidth=1.5]
        edge [arrowhead=none, style=dashed, arrowsize=0.5, arrowtail=normal, color="#DBAB0A", dir=both, penwidth=1, fontcolor="#DBAB0A"];
        traincar1 -> ci;
        traincar2 -> ci;
        traincar3 -> ci;
    }
}

```

These temporary PRs are created to facilitate parallel testing via your
continuous integration (CI) pipelines. The goal is to validate the merged
outcome of every PR in the queue in advance, ensuring they meet the
`queue_rules` merge conditions. If any of the PRs fails, it is removed from the
queue, identifying it as the source of the failure.

<Image src={specChecksListScreenshot} alt="Mergify parallel checks" />

The result is an efficient PR processing workflow that ensures rapid and
successful merges while minimizing the risk of merge conflicts and test
failures.

<Image src={specChecksDetailsScreenshot} alt="Mergify parallel checks details" />

:::note
  Mergify does not merge the temporary draft PRs, but rather merges the
  original PR once they pass the speculative checks. It is possible to merge
  the draft PR themselves — see [Merging the Draft PRs](#merging-the-draft-prs).
:::

## Configuring Parallel Checks

Configuring parallel checks requires the use of the `max_parallel_checks`
setting in your Mergify configuration file. The value for `max_parallel_checks`
determines the maximum number of PRs that can be embarked together for parallel
checking.

Here's a sample configuration:

```yaml
merge_queue:
  max_parallel_checks: 3

queue_rules:
  - name: default
    merge_conditions:
      - "#approved-reviews-by >= 2"
      - check-success = test
```

In the above example, Mergify will embark up to 3 PRs together for parallel
checking. Note that this doesn't mean that only 3 PRs will be in the queue — it
simply dictates the maximum number of PRs that can be scheduled together for
simultaneous testing.

Remember, parallel checks are optional and the use of this feature depends on
your specific project needs. You may need to adjust the `max_parallel_checks`
value depending on the CI resources available and the typical size and
complexity of PRs in your project.

## Handling Issues with Parallel Checks

When parallel checks are underway, certain issues can lead to changes in the
way the PRs are being processed. Here's what happens in the event of various
issues.

### Failed Checks

If any of the embarked PRs fail the checks defined in `merge_conditions`, that
PR is removed from the queue. The checks are then re-run on the remaining PRs.

### Changes to Queue Rules or PRs

If an embarked PR no longer matches the `queue_conditions`, it is removed from
the queue. Similarly, all PRs embarked after the removed PR are also
disembarked and re-embarked according to their new order in the queue, making
Mergify launches new checks.

This situation can occur when there are changes to the PR itself (such as a new
commit or a change in labels) or changes to the `queue_conditions`. In either
case, the queue is updated and the speculative check process is restarted.

### New Commit on the Base Branch

If a new commit is pushed to the base branch while parallel checks are
underway, Mergify resets the process. The checks start over again with the
updated base branch. This ensures that the merged code will be up-to-date with
the latest version of the base branch.

You can disable this behavior by settings `reset_on_external_merge: never` in
your configuration file.

In all these scenarios, the parallel checks process is dynamic and adjusts
itself to the changes, ensuring that the merged code meets the criteria defined
in the `queue_rules`.

## Important Considerations

While parallel checks can greatly speed up the merging process, there are a few
important considerations to keep in mind when using this feature:

### Branch Protection Settings

Parallel checks operate by creating temporary pull requests, which merge
multiple PRs with the base branch. This process requires the branch protection
setting `Require branches to be up to date before merging` to be disabled.

This does not mean that Mergify will test outdated PRs, but it will merge the
original pull requests once its parallel checks is finished. The original PR
won't be up-to-date according to GitHub, which means using this setting would
block the merge.

### Parallel Checks Limit

You can set the number of parallel speculative checks by adjusting the
`max_parallel_checks` value in the `merge_queue` section, at the root of your
Mergify configuration file. The value can range from 1 to 128, depending on
your requirements and available CI resources.

### Queued PR Changes

Remember that changes to PRs or the queue can disrupt the parallel checks
process. If a PR is updated or changed in a way that it no longer meets the
`queue_rules`, it will be removed from the queue, and the order of checks will
be updated. In such cases, the process resets, and the remaining PRs are
rechecked in their new order.

### Transferring Labels

import LabelCopier from  './_mergify-merge-queue-labels-copier.mdx'

<LabelCopier />
