src/content/docs/merge-queue/priority.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Priorities
description: Learn how to order your pull requests in the queue by priority.
---

import OptionsTable from '../../../components/Tables/OptionsTable';

Priority rules are an optional but highly useful feature in Mergify's arsenal.
They offer you a more refined control over how your pull requests are ordered
within a queue. By applying these rules, you can assign priorities to pull
requests based on the conditions you define. This makes it possible to
influence the position in which a pull request is added to the queue, thereby
helping you handle urgent tasks more promptly.

## Understanding Priority Rules

Priority rules in Mergify are a set of guidelines that determine the order of
pull requests within a merge queue. They apply a priority — which could be a
keyword such as `low`, `medium`, `high` or a numerical value — to a pull
request based on conditions you've defined. When using numerical value, the
value can be between 1 and 10,000.

When a pull request is added to a queue, each priority rule is evaluated
against its conditions. This assessment determines where the pull request will
be placed in the queue. If multiple rules match the pull request, the first matching
one will be used.

:::note

  If no priority rules matches, Mergify assigns the `medium` priority to a
  pull request. This is not configurable.

:::

Here is a glimpse into the structure of a priority rule:

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: high priority
    conditions:
      - label = urgent
    priority: high
  - name: low priority
    conditions:
      - label = refactor
    priority: low
```

In the above configuration:

- Two priority rules, `high priority` and `low priority`, are defined.

- Each rule contains conditions (`label = urgent` and `label = refactor`,
  respectively) which, if met, apply a certain priority to the pull request
  (`high` or `low`). Pull requests that match no priority rules get assigned to
  `medium` priority.

- The name under each rule is just an identifier and doesn't impact the
  functioning of the rule.

The power of priority rules lies in their flexibility. You can set up as many
rules as you need, tailored to your specific workflow. Whether it's to
prioritize bug fixes or to push feature updates to the back, priority rules
offer you the control you need over your merge queue.

## How to Define Priority Rules

Defining priority rules is straightforward and involves the following steps:

1. **Define priority levels**: Decide on the levels of priority you want to
   establish for your pull requests. You can use either keywords (`low`,
   `medium`, `high`) or numerical values for this purpose.

2. **Set up conditions**: Define the conditions under which a pull request
   should be assigned a particular priority level. These conditions can be
   based on any [pull request attribute](/configuration/conditions#attributes-list).

Reference:

<OptionsTable def="PriorityRuleModel" />

The textual priorities have the following numerical values:

<table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Keyword</th>
        <th>Numerical Value</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tr>
      <td><code>low</code></td>
      <td>1000</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>medium</code></td>
      <td>2000</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>high</code></td>
      <td>3000</td>
    </tr>
</table>

:::note

  Remember that a pull request can match multiple rules. In such cases, Mergify
  picks the first matching rule, in the order they are defined in your config.

:::

## Managing Check Interruptions Based on Priority

The `allow_checks_interruption` option plays a critical role in managing the
sequence of pull requests within the merge queue. When set to `true`, which is
the default setting, this option allows the interruption of ongoing checks if a
pull request with higher priority enters the queue.

In practice, this means that if a high priority pull request is added to the
queue, Mergify can stop the checks on the current pull request in order to
prioritize the high priority one.

Conversely, if `allow_checks_interruption` is set to `false`, Mergify will not
interrupt the checks. Instead, a pull request with a higher priority will be
inserted just after the pull requests that currently have checks running. This
ensures the continuity of the testing process while still respecting the
priority order in the queue.

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: default
    merge_conditions:
      - "#approved-reviews-by >= 2"
      - check-success = TeamCity

priority_rules:
  - name: urgent
    conditions:
      - label = urgent
    priority: high
    allow_checks_interruption: false

  - name: normal
    conditions:
      - label = normal
    priority: low
```

In this configuration, `allow_checks_interruption` is set to `false` for the
`urgent` priority. This means if a pull request with the `urgent` label (which
has a higher priority) enters the queue, it will not interrupt the checks
running on a pull request with the `normal` label. Instead, it will wait for
the `normal` pull request's checks to complete before starting its own checks.

## Advanced Priority Rule Usage

Beyond the basic use of priority rules, you can leverage advanced features to
fine-tune how your pull requests are prioritized in the queue.

### Using Numerical Values

While the keywords (`low`, `medium`, `high`) provide an easy way to define
priority, they might be restrictive in some cases. If you need more granular
control, consider using numerical values for priority. The higher the number,
the higher the priority.

For example:

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: extremely urgent
    conditions:
      - label = critical
    priority: 5000
```

In this rule, pull requests labeled `critical` are given a very high priority.

### Mixing Keywords and Numerical Values

There is no rule that prevents you from mixing keyword and numerical values in
your priority definitions. This could be useful in scenarios where you want to
distinguish between a general set of important tasks (assigned a keyword like
`high`) and extremely important tasks (assigned a high numerical value).

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: important task
    conditions:
      - label = important
    priority: high
  - name: critical task
    conditions:
      - label = critical
    priority: 5000
```

In this configuration, `critical` tasks are treated with the utmost urgency,
while `important` tasks also receive high priority but are placed after
`critical` tasks in the queue.

### Complex Condition Definitions

The conditions for priority rules are not limited to simple label checks. You
can make use of any condition syntax available in Mergify. This includes checks
for review status, authorship, file paths, and more. This opens up a wide array
of possibilities for defining intricate priority systems based on your team's
workflow.

Here's an example that gives high priority to pull requests that modify the
`/src` directory:

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: core changes
    conditions:
      - files ~= ^src/
    priority: high
```

These are just a few ways to get the most out of Mergify's priority rules. By
thinking about your team's needs and workflow, you can leverage these advanced
usage scenarios to create a priority system that best serves your project.

## Troubleshooting Priority Rules

Even with the best planning and understanding, you may run into issues when
setting up or managing priority rules. Here are some common problems and their
solutions:

### Priority Rule Not Applied

If you find that a priority rule is not applied as expected, there may be
several reasons:

- Check the conditions of the priority rule. Ensure that the pull request
  matches the conditions specified in the priority rule.

- There might be an error in the syntax or formatting of your Mergify
  configuration file. Be sure to verify the syntax and structure of your
  configuration file.

### Unexpected Queue Position

If a pull request ends up in an unexpected position in the queue:

- Verify the priority assigned in the priority rule. A higher value or a higher
  priority keyword (e.g., "high") will place the pull request closer to the
  front of the queue.

- Make sure there isn't another priority rule that is placing the pull request
  at a different position.

Commit message:

chore(MQ): document batches optimization
we have some optimization in the MQ that need to be documented

Change-Id: I8dd98da20ac43c26dd9eabef31c318be5c21b6db

src/content/docs/merge-queue/priority.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Priorities
description: Learn how to order your pull requests in the queue by priority.
---

import OptionsTable from '../../../components/Tables/OptionsTable';

Priority rules are an optional but highly useful feature in Mergify's arsenal.
They offer you a more refined control over how your pull requests are ordered
within a queue. By applying these rules, you can assign priorities to pull
requests based on the conditions you define. This makes it possible to
influence the position in which a pull request is added to the queue, thereby
helping you handle urgent tasks more promptly.

## Understanding Priority Rules

Priority rules in Mergify are a set of guidelines that determine the order of
pull requests within a merge queue. They apply a priority — which could be a
keyword such as `low`, `medium`, `high` or a numerical value — to a pull
request based on conditions you've defined. When using numerical value, the
value can be between 1 and 10,000.

When a pull request is added to a queue, each priority rule is evaluated
against its conditions. This assessment determines where the pull request will
be placed in the queue. If multiple rules match the pull request, the first matching
one will be used.

:::note

  If no priority rules matches, Mergify assigns the `medium` priority to a
  pull request. This is not configurable.

:::

Here is a glimpse into the structure of a priority rule:

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: high priority
    conditions:
      - label = urgent
    priority: high
  - name: low priority
    conditions:
      - label = refactor
    priority: low
```

In the above configuration:

- Two priority rules, `high priority` and `low priority`, are defined.

- Each rule contains conditions (`label = urgent` and `label = refactor`,
  respectively) which, if met, apply a certain priority to the pull request
  (`high` or `low`). Pull requests that match no priority rules get assigned to
  `medium` priority.

- The name under each rule is just an identifier and doesn't impact the
  functioning of the rule.

The power of priority rules lies in their flexibility. You can set up as many
rules as you need, tailored to your specific workflow. Whether it's to
prioritize bug fixes or to push feature updates to the back, priority rules
offer you the control you need over your merge queue.

## How to Define Priority Rules

Defining priority rules is straightforward and involves the following steps:

1. **Define priority levels**: Decide on the levels of priority you want to
   establish for your pull requests. You can use either keywords (`low`,
   `medium`, `high`) or numerical values for this purpose.

2. **Set up conditions**: Define the conditions under which a pull request
   should be assigned a particular priority level. These conditions can be
   based on any [pull request attribute](/configuration/conditions#attributes-list).

Reference:

<OptionsTable def="PriorityRuleModel" />

The textual priorities have the following numerical values:

<table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Keyword</th>
        <th>Numerical Value</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tr>
      <td><code>low</code></td>
      <td>1000</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>medium</code></td>
      <td>2000</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>high</code></td>
      <td>3000</td>
    </tr>
</table>

:::note

  Remember that a pull request can match multiple rules. In such cases, Mergify
  picks the first matching rule, in the order they are defined in your config.

:::

:::note

    Priority is always the first criterion when selecting pull requests for batching.
    Mergify picks PRs strictly in priority order and only after that may look ahead to 
    find additional PRs with the same queue rule to complete the batch.
    This ensures that higher-priority pull requests are never delayed, while still 
    allowing the system to optimize CI usage and reduce merge time.

:::

## Managing Check Interruptions Based on Priority

The `allow_checks_interruption` option plays a critical role in managing the
sequence of pull requests within the merge queue. When set to `true`, which is
the default setting, this option allows the interruption of ongoing checks if a
pull request with higher priority enters the queue.

In practice, this means that if a high priority pull request is added to the
queue, Mergify can stop the checks on the current pull request in order to
prioritize the high priority one.

Conversely, if `allow_checks_interruption` is set to `false`, Mergify will not
interrupt the checks. Instead, a pull request with a higher priority will be
inserted just after the pull requests that currently have checks running. This
ensures the continuity of the testing process while still respecting the
priority order in the queue.

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: default
    merge_conditions:
      - "#approved-reviews-by >= 2"
      - check-success = TeamCity

priority_rules:
  - name: urgent
    conditions:
      - label = urgent
    priority: high
    allow_checks_interruption: false

  - name: normal
    conditions:
      - label = normal
    priority: low
```

In this configuration, `allow_checks_interruption` is set to `false` for the
`urgent` priority. This means if a pull request with the `urgent` label (which
has a higher priority) enters the queue, it will not interrupt the checks
running on a pull request with the `normal` label. Instead, it will wait for
the `normal` pull request's checks to complete before starting its own checks.

## Advanced Priority Rule Usage

Beyond the basic use of priority rules, you can leverage advanced features to
fine-tune how your pull requests are prioritized in the queue.

### Using Numerical Values

While the keywords (`low`, `medium`, `high`) provide an easy way to define
priority, they might be restrictive in some cases. If you need more granular
control, consider using numerical values for priority. The higher the number,
the higher the priority.

For example:

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: extremely urgent
    conditions:
      - label = critical
    priority: 5000
```

In this rule, pull requests labeled `critical` are given a very high priority.

### Mixing Keywords and Numerical Values

There is no rule that prevents you from mixing keyword and numerical values in
your priority definitions. This could be useful in scenarios where you want to
distinguish between a general set of important tasks (assigned a keyword like
`high`) and extremely important tasks (assigned a high numerical value).

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: important task
    conditions:
      - label = important
    priority: high
  - name: critical task
    conditions:
      - label = critical
    priority: 5000
```

In this configuration, `critical` tasks are treated with the utmost urgency,
while `important` tasks also receive high priority but are placed after
`critical` tasks in the queue.

### Complex Condition Definitions

The conditions for priority rules are not limited to simple label checks. You
can make use of any condition syntax available in Mergify. This includes checks
for review status, authorship, file paths, and more. This opens up a wide array
of possibilities for defining intricate priority systems based on your team's
workflow.

Here's an example that gives high priority to pull requests that modify the
`/src` directory:

```yaml
priority_rules:
  - name: core changes
    conditions:
      - files ~= ^src/
    priority: high
```

These are just a few ways to get the most out of Mergify's priority rules. By
thinking about your team's needs and workflow, you can leverage these advanced
usage scenarios to create a priority system that best serves your project.

## Troubleshooting Priority Rules

Even with the best planning and understanding, you may run into issues when
setting up or managing priority rules. Here are some common problems and their
solutions:

### Priority Rule Not Applied

If you find that a priority rule is not applied as expected, there may be
several reasons:

- Check the conditions of the priority rule. Ensure that the pull request
  matches the conditions specified in the priority rule.

- There might be an error in the syntax or formatting of your Mergify
  configuration file. Be sure to verify the syntax and structure of your
  configuration file.

### Unexpected Queue Position

If a pull request ends up in an unexpected position in the queue:

- Verify the priority assigned in the priority rule. A higher value or a higher
  priority keyword (e.g., "high") will place the pull request closer to the
  front of the queue.

- Make sure there isn't another priority rule that is placing the pull request
  at a different position.
