---
title: Using Queue Rules
description: Learn how to implement queue rules and route your pull requests.
---

In larger projects with a high volume of pull requests, managing merges can
become a complex task. This is where Mergify's multiple queue rules feature can
be a game-changer. It enables you to have finer control over the merge process
by categorizing pull requests based on any criteria you define.

Queue rules allow you to organize your pull requests merge process into
separate templates, each with its own merge configuration.

## Understanding Queue Rules

Mergify's queue rules system is a powerful tool for managing a large number of
pull requests. In essence, it allows you to create different merge processes,
each with its unique configuration.

## Configuring Queue Rules

Multiple queue rules in Mergify can be configured using the `queue_rules`
configuration in your YAML configuration file. Each queue rule should be
identified by a unique name and can have different configurations. Here is a
step-by-step guide on how to set up multiple queue rules and some configuration
options that you can use.

1. **Define Your Queue Rules**: Start by identifying the different queue rules
   you need. This could be based on your project's requirements, the type of
   pull requests, or the teams working on them. Write your
   [`queue_conditions`](/merge-queue/lifecycle#adding-a-pull-request-to-the-merge-queue)
   accordingly.

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: urgent
    # This can be queued before CI finishes its first run if the PR has the urgent label
    queue_conditions:
      - label = urgent
    # We still want the CI to pass to merge the PR
    merge_conditions:
      - check-success = myci
  - name: standard
    # CI is needed for queueing and merging the PR
    queue_conditions:
      - check-success = myci
```

   In this example, pull requests with the `urgent` label will be queued using
   the `urgent` queue rule before the first CI even finished, making sure the
   PR is updated and scheduled as soon as possible.

2. **Configure Each Queue Rule**: For each queue rule, you can specify
   different configurations like `batch_size`.

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: urgent
    ...
    batch_size: 2
  - name: standard
    ...
    batch_size: 5
```

## Auto‑Queueing Pull Requests

You can automatically enqueue pull requests that satisfy a queue rule's
`queue_conditions` by setting the `autoqueue` flag to `true` (default is
`false`). When `autoqueue: true` the pull request is added to the merge queue
as soon as it matches `queue_conditions`. No pull request rule with a `queue`
action or manual [`queue` command](/commands/queue) is required.

This ensures PRs are enqueued consistently & immediately, reduing latency
between validation success and scheduling.

Example:

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: urgent
    autoqueue: true
    queue_conditions:
      - label = urgent
    merge_conditions:
      - check-success = myci

  - name: default
    autoqueue: false
    queue_conditions:
      - check-success = myci
    batch_size: 5
```

With this configuration, any PR carrying `label = urgent` is enqueued instantly
(even before CI finishes, if you omit that check from `queue_conditions`),
while standard PRs enter only manually after CI succeeds.

Set `autoqueue: false` (or omit it) if you want enqueueing to be explicit, for
example:
- Allow contributors to opt‑in manually via the [`queue`
  command](/commands/queue)

- Gate queueing behind an internal custom workflow step
