---
title: Merge Queue Batches
description: Increase your merge queue throughput and decrease your CI usage.
---

import { Screenshot } from "../../components/Images"
import batchesScreenshot from "../images/merge-queue/batches/batches-dashboard.png"

Mergify's batch merging feature is a powerful tool that enhances productivity
and efficiency in your development workflow. Instead of merging pull requests
one by one, which can be time-consuming, especially for larger projects, batch
merging allows you to combine and merge multiple pull requests at once.

The batch merging process works by setting a `batch_size` option on your merge
queue. This option determines the number of pull requests that Mergify will
combine into a single draft pull request. The draft pull request is then
validated by your Continuous Integration (CI) system. If the CI validation
passes, Mergify merges all the pull requests in the batch and closes the draft
pull request. If a failure occurs, Mergify identifies the problematic pull
request(s) and removes them from the queue, allowing the rest of the queue to
be processed as usual.

This feature is especially useful for large-scale projects with many pull
requests to merge, as it can significantly reduce the time required to merge
them all.

## Understanding Batch Merging

Batch merging works by utilizing the `batch_size` option in your Mergify
configuration. This option tells Mergify how many pull requests it should try
to combine and validate at once. The `batch_size` can be adjusted according to
the needs of your project, with a higher number indicating a larger batch size.

For example, if you set `batch_size` to 3, Mergify will create a draft pull
request that includes the changes from the next three pull requests in the
queue. This draft pull request is then validated by your CI system. If all
checks pass, then the three pull requests included in the batch are deemed
ready to be merged.

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: default
    batch_size: 3
    ...
```

{/* FIXME: add a graphviz schema */}

In case the draft pull request fails CI validation, it means one or more pull
requests in the batch have introduced changes that are causing the failure.
Mergify handles this scenario by using a binary search method to identify the
failing pull request(s). It does this by systematically reducing the batch size
and re-running the CI checks until it finds the problematic pull request. Once
found, the failing pull request is removed from the queue and the rest of the
pull requests are processed as usual.

This batch merging process allows multiple pull requests to be validated and
merged more efficiently than if they were handled individually.

## Configuring Batch Merging

Configuring batch merging involves adjusting your Mergify configuration file to
set the `batch_size` options according to your project's needs.

1. Open your [Mergify configuration file](/configuration/file-format).

2. Under `queue_rules`, set the `batch_size` option to the number of pull
   requests you want to be tested together in a batch.

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: default
    batch_size: 3
    ...
```

In the above example, batches of up to 3 pull requests will be created and
tested together.

<Screenshot src={batchesScreenshot} alt="Mergify merge queue with batches" />

If you want to further optimize your merge queue, you can also adjust the
`speculative_checks` option. This determines how many batches Mergify will try
to validate at the same time.

```yaml
queue_rules:
  - name: default
    speculative_checks: 2
    batch_size: 3
    ...
```

In the above example, Mergify will create up to 2 batches, each containing up
to 3 pull requests, and test them in parallel.

By adjusting these settings, you can find the optimal balance for your project
between ensuring quality (by thoroughly testing each change) and maintaining
productivity (by merging changes quickly).

## Batch Merging and Speculative Checks

Batch merging and speculative checks are two powerful features that work in
synergy to improve the efficiency of your merge queue.

Batch merging allows Mergify to test multiple pull requests together as a
single unit, reducing the amount of time waiting for individual pull request
tests to complete. On the other hand, [speculative checks](speculative-checks)
allow for multiple batches to be tested in parallel, further speeding up the
merge process.

When both these features are enabled, Mergify creates multiple batches of pull
requests (according to the `batch_size` option) and then runs tests on several
of these batches at the same time (as defined by the `speculative_checks`
option). If any pull request within a batch fails, Mergify identifies the
culprit through a binary search, removes it from the queue, and continues
processing the rest of the queue.

Combining these two features allows you to optimize the throughput of your
merge queue. You can increase the batch size to merge more pull requests
concurrently, while also increasing the number of speculative checks to test
more batches in parallel. This minimizes idle time and makes full use of your
CI resources.

Suppose your queue has 15 pull requests waiting, and your CI pipeline takes
about 10 minutes to complete. If you set `batch_size` to 5 and
`speculative_checks` to 3, Mergify would create 3 batches, each containing 5
pull requests. These batches are then tested in parallel.

{/* FIXME: add a graphviz schema? */}

With this configuration, even if your CI time is 10 minutes, you can merge all
15 pull requests in only 10 minutes, as opposed to the 2.5Â hours it would
typically take to test each pull request individually.

# Important Considerations

While using batch merging and speculative checks together can significantly
speed up your merge queue processing, it's crucial to consider the following
points for an optimal setup:

- **CI Resource Utilization**: Increasing the batch size and speculative checks
  could lead to higher usage of your Continuous Integration (CI) resources.
  Ensure that your CI provider can handle the increased load without affecting
  other tasks or exceeding any limitations.

- **Base Branch Updates**: Batch merging tests pull requests against the latest
  version of the base branch within another temporary pull request. Therefore,
  if a new commit is pushed to the base branch, Mergify resets the process and
  starts over with the updated base branch.

- **Branch Protection Settings**: Since pull requests are tested within
  temporary ones, the branch protection setting `Require branches to be up to
  date before merging` needs to be disabled. If your team requires a linear
  history, you can set the queue option `merge_method: rebase`.

- **Queue Management**: With batch merging, if a pull request within a batch
  fails, it is removed from the queue, and the remaining ones are processed as
  usual. It's essential to monitor your queue to handle any such failures
  promptly.
