src/content/docs/ci-insights.mdx, before:

---
title: CI Insights
description: Optimize your CI run time, catch flaky tests, and give developers actionable insights so your team ships code faster.
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets"
import MainScreenshot from "../images/ci-insights/main.png"
import TokenScreenshot from "../images/ci-insights/token.png"
import GHSecretsScreenshot from "../images/ci-insights/gh-secrets.png"
import {
  SiPytest,
  SiGithub,
  SiCypress,
  SiVitest,
  SiGo,
} from 'react-icons/si';
import Docset from '../../components/DocsetGrid/Docset.astro';
import DocsetGrid from '../../components/DocsetGrid/DocsetGrid.astro';

CI Insights helps you monitor your pipelines, detect flaky tests, and optimize
your CI efficiency. This guide walks you through enabling CI Insights via
GitHub and covers basic configuration steps.

:::note
  If you do not see CI Insights in your dashboard, this means you are not part
  of our *Early Access* program. Feel free to [apply for early
  access](https://forms.mergify.com/ci-insights-early-access).
:::

## Enabling CI Insights for GitHub

1. Enable CI Insights on your repositories by visiting the [GitHub Integration
   page](https://dashboard.mergify.com/integrations/github)
   ([docs](/integrations/github)).

2. In order to upload your test results, you'll need to [configure your
   test](#test-framework-configuration). Before doing so, makes sure you set
   your `MERGIFY_TOKEN` in GitHub in your GitHub Actions secrets.

   To find your token in the Mergify dashboard, go to `Settings` and then `CI
   Insights`:

   <Image src={TokenScreenshot} alt="CI Insights Token" />

   Once you copy it, you'll need to paste it to into your secrets:

   <Image src={GHSecretsScreenshot} alt="GitHub Actions Secrets" />

   This token will be used to upload test reports. See below to configure them.

3. Click on `CI Insights` in the navigation bar from Mergify dashboard. You
   should see your first GitHub Actions job run here.

   <Image src={MainScreenshot} alt="CI Insights" />

## Test Framework Configuration

CI Insights currently supports many tests framework allowing you get more
details about your test runs. Each framework requires a quick setup to ensure
test results are captured correctly. Refer to the dedicated pages for your
specific framework to configure and verify your test output.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Pytest"
    path="/ci-insights/pytest"
    icon={SiPytest}
  >
    Integration Pytest with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
    <Docset
    title="Go"
    path="/ci-insights/golang"
    icon={SiGo}
  >
    Integration Go with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
  <Docset
    title="Cypress"
    path="/ci-insights/cypress"
    icon={SiCypress}
  >
    Integration Cypress with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
  <Docset
    title="Vitest"
    path="/ci-insights/vitest"
    icon={SiVitest}
  >
    Integration Vitest with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
</DocsetGrid>

Commit message:

docs(ci-insights): enhance main page (#7119)

src/content/docs/ci-insights.mdx, after:

---
title: CI Insights
description: Optimize your CI run time, catch flaky tests, and give developers actionable insights so your team ships code faster.
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets"
import MainScreenshot from "../images/ci-insights/main.png"
import TokenScreenshot from "../images/ci-insights/token.png"
import GHSecretsScreenshot from "../images/ci-insights/gh-secrets.png"
import {
  SiPytest,
  SiGithub,
  SiCypress,
  SiVitest,
  SiGo,
} from 'react-icons/si';
import Docset from '../../components/DocsetGrid/Docset.astro';
import DocsetGrid from '../../components/DocsetGrid/DocsetGrid.astro';

CI Insights helps you monitor your pipelines, detect flaky tests, and optimize
your CI efficiency. This guide walks you through enabling CI Insights via
GitHub and covers basic configuration steps.

:::note
  If you do not see CI Insights in your dashboard, this means you are not part
  of our *Early Access* program. Feel free to [apply for early
  access](https://forms.mergify.com/ci-insights-early-access).
:::

## Enabling CI Insights for GitHub

1. Enable CI Insights on your repositories by visiting the [GitHub Integration
   page](https://dashboard.mergify.com/integrations/github)
   ([docs](/integrations/github)).

2. In order to upload your test results, you'll need to [configure your
   test](#test-framework-configuration). Before doing so, make sure you set
   your `MERGIFY_TOKEN` in GitHub Actions secrets.

   To find your token in the Mergify dashboard, go to `Settings` > `CI
   Insights`:

   <Image src={TokenScreenshot} alt="CI Insights Token" />

   Once copied, paste it into your GitHub Actions secrets:

   <Image src={GHSecretsScreenshot} alt="GitHub Actions Secrets" />

   This token will be used to upload test reports.

3. Click on `CI Insights` in the Mergify dashboard navigation.
   You should start seeing your GitHub Actions job runs appear:

   <Image src={MainScreenshot} alt="CI Insights" />

## Test Framework Configuration

CI Insights supports many test frameworks and captures test-level data from them.
Each framework requires a quick setup to ensure test results are parsed and uploaded properly.

Refer to the dedicated page for your specific framework to configure and verify your test output.

<DocsetGrid>
  <Docset
    title="Pytest"
    path="/ci-insights/pytest"
    icon={SiPytest}
  >
    Integrate Pytest with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
  <Docset
    title="Go"
    path="/ci-insights/golang"
    icon={SiGo}
  >
    Integrate Go with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
  <Docset
    title="Cypress"
    path="/ci-insights/cypress"
    icon={SiCypress}
  >
    Integrate Cypress with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
  <Docset
    title="Vitest"
    path="/ci-insights/vitest"
    icon={SiVitest}
  >
    Integrate Vitest with CI Insights.
  </Docset>
</DocsetGrid>
